(CNN) — If you're still deciding where to take your summer vacation, 2019 brings major anniversaries, new flight routes, buzzy museum openings and more.
In no particular order, check out our picks for where to travel this summer:
1. Salar de Uyuni, Bolivia
The Salar de Uyuni, or Uyuni Salt Flat, is a vast expanse near the Bolivian Andes that resembles ice.
The surreal landscape is actually leftover salt from ancient lakes. Flooding from today's nearby lakes during the rainy season (November-March) results in a reflective surface that is every photographer's dream.
But hotel options are limited in this remote region, so it's big news that Kachi Lodge just debuted in May. The camp consists of six luxury domes perched on platforms that provide all the features of a hotel room (proper indoor bathroom with hot water, a double bed, heat) while also allowing unobstructed views of the surrounding salt flat.
A larger lounge dome offers a communal space with tables, floor cushions and hanging lanterns. Food is provided by Gustu in La Paz, considered one of Latin America's top restaurants.
Beyond simply enjoying the food and scenery, guests can hike to the crater of Tunupa Volcano, mountain bike across the Salar or visit the village of Jirira and accompany a local on llama herding rounds. Come nightfall, on-site telescopes take full advantage of the star-flooded sky.
It seems like there's always a new hotel opening in Las Vegas, but the recently added Park MGM stands out for a number of reasons.
For one, the property is far more than just a trendy hotel. Guests can also experience a 40,000-square-foot Eataly, the city's first location for the food emporium that also has locations in New York and Chicago.
Then there's the Park Theater, where up to 5,200 people can enjoy A-list artist residencies: Lady Gaga is currently in residence until November, with Janet Jackson and Cher starting this summer. For good measure, Bruno Mars will also be performing some dates in September.
It's not a Vegas hotel without a casino, and Park MGM delivers with a classy gaming hall that retains the original chandeliers from its former life as the Monte Carlo. If that's not enough, the NoMad Las Vegas offers that hotel-within-a-hotel option, dominating Park MGM's upper floors with elegant, European-inspired rooms.
Daniel Humm and Will Guidara, perhaps best known for NYC's Eleven Madison Park restaurant, are behind the NoMad Restaurant and NoMad Bar. And foodies will no doubt want to experience Roy Choi's Best Friend, the first brick-and-mortar restaurant following his hugely successful Korean BBQ truck.
Beginning in June, new direct flights make the Canadian Maritime province of Nova Scotia more accessible than ever.
American Airlines will start seasonal service from Philadelphia and New York's LaGuardia Airport, while United will add direct flights from Chicago. (United already flies direct to Halifax from Newark.)
Nova Scotia often gets overlooked for popular provinces like British Columbia and Quebec, but its quiet charms are worth exploring. Cape Breton Island takes a bit of work to reach, but it's here that you'll find challenging hiking trails, a scenic driving route minus the traffic and real-deal Celtic culture.
The Halifax Jazz Festival, held in the province's capital, is considered Nova Scotia's largest music festival, and goes down from July 9-14 on the waterfront.
For something you don't experience every day, Dining on the Ocean Floor in the Bay of Fundy is a wildly popular event that involves just that. Guests feast on renowned local seafood while seated at a communal table on the ocean floor -- during low tide, of course. 2019 is already sold out, so make plans for 2020.
Between Wimbledon, the Royal Baby and new hotels, there are a lot of reasons to visit London this summer.
For starters, tennis fans will likely have July 1-14 blocked out on their calendars for Wimbledon, while royal baby fans can revel in the local zeitgeist while visiting royal hangouts like Westminster Abbey and Windsor Castle.
Speaking of royals, 2019 also happens to mark Queen Victoria's 200th birthday. Two new exhibits will open May 24 at Kensington Palace: "Victoria: Woman and Crown" explores the Queen's private life, while "Victoria: A Royal Childhood" is a new permanent exhibit with never-before-seen items, such as a scrapbook created by her governess.
On the hotel front, The Langley is a palatial new hotel readying for a June opening. Located in Buckinghamshire, the one-time country estate of the third Duke of Marlborough, the hotel is less than an hour from London, yet feels more remote.
Balance this with an East London stay at The Stratford, a new design-forward hotel occupying the first seven floors of the Manhattan Loft Gardens skyscraper. Access to outdoor spaces, 24-hour gym and trendy dining are part of the appeal.
It's the Grand Canyon's 100th anniversary as a national park, and there are multiple ways to celebrate this notable occasion.
From June 22-29, stargazers can join amateur astronomers for free at the park's North and South Rims for the Star Party. Telescopes will be on hand to find planets (Jupiter and Saturn among them), star clusters and nebulae. There will also be slide show programs with a different focus each night, from protecting dark skies to learning how planets form.
Constellation talks and night sky photography workshops are among the free offerings, just allow yourself enough time since you won't be the only one with this idea.
Also be sure to wear layers since temps drop quickly once the sun sets. While the event is free, the park charges $35 per car -- but at least that fee covers the entire week of star-filled events.